Hi everybody and welcome back this lecture we're going to be looking at reading a file line by line
so that you can see here I have a file now I have a file created called reading line by line up.
And I have a movie line by line RTX which will be available in the resources and I just have libber
more information into our movies line by line that he XTi.
So I've taken out the first 12 movies from the I am the export or data set that I got.
And again I'll make that dataset available in the resources.
So when we're reading a file we'll sometimes want to examine each line of the file.
We might be looking for a second piece of information in the file to perform a certain task.
We can use a for loop on the file object we examine each line from a file.
So how would we do that.
Well like last night you would say create a variable called file name equals let's say movies line by
line t s t.
There we go.
Next we have it open.
We put in a very file name as File object color.
There we go.
Now we create a for loop so for line in file object print line.
And I see what that gives us that run us.
There we go.
We have our information from our movies line by line that XTi all printed out here.
Now as you can see there's an extra piece of space here and we'll address that now in a few minutes.
So let's just run through this file really quickly.
Line five we store the name of the file we're reading into the variable file name a common convention
I'm working with files the variable font name doesn't represent the actual file.
It just represents a string telling Python where to find a file offered us here at Line 7 after we call
open an object representing the file and its contents is stored in the variable file object.
Again we use the syntax to open and close the file properly.
Next up line 8 we go through each line in the file by looping over to file object.
And as I just said when our file prints out you'll notice some new blank lines.
These appear because an invisible newline character is at the end of each line in the text file.
The print statement adds its own new line each time we call it so we can remove this by using that strip
and there we go.
So I hope that made sense.
How to access a file and read it line by line using a for loop.
I'd be looking at this in more detail later on.
Thanks for listening and I'll see you in the next lecture.